My Private Will and Testament

The Secretary of the Führer, Reichsleiter Martin Bormann
Führer Headquarters
29.4.45

Dear Admiral of the Fleet,
As, owing to the non-arrival of all divisions, our position appears hopeless, the Führer last night dictated the enclosed political Testament.
Heil Hitler!
Your
[signature illegible, presumably Martin Bormann]

[Seal]
[ADOLF HITLER]
As I did not consider that I could take responsibility, during the years of struggle, of contracting a marriage, I have now decided, before the closing of my earthly career, to take as my wife that girl who, after many years of faithful friendship, entered, of her own free will, the practically besieged town in order to share her destiny with me. At her own desire she goes as my wife with me into death. It will compensate us for what we both lost through my work in the service of my people.
What I possess belongs — in so far as it has any value — to the Party. Should this no longer exist, to the State, should the State also be destroyed, no further decision of mine is necessary.
My pictures, in the collections which I have bought in the course of years, have never been collected for private purposes, but only for the extension of a gallery in my home town of Linz a.d. Donau.
It is my most sincere wish that this bequest may be duly executed.
I nominate as my Executor my most faithful Party comrade,
Martin Bormann.
He is given full legal authority to make all decisions. He is permitted to take out everything that has a sentimental value or is necessary for the maintenance of a modest simple life, for my brothers and sisters, also above all for the mother of my wife[1] and my faithful coworkers who are well known to him, principally my old Secretaries Frau Winter etc. Who have for many years aided me by their work.
I myself and my wife — in order to escape the disgrace of deposition or capitulation — choose death. It is our wish to be burnt immediately on the spot where I have carried out the greatest part of my daily work in the course of a twelve years' service to my people.
Given in Berlin, 29th. April 1945, 4:00 o'clock.
As Witnesses:
(Sd.) Martin Bormann
(Sd.) Dr. Fuhr
As Witness:
(Sd.) Nicolaus von Below.
[Seal]
ADOLF HITLER
This work is in the public domain in the United States because it is a work of the United States federal government (see 17 U.S.C. 105).
