Führer and Reichskanzler Adolf Hitler's Address to the Reichstag

Deputies, Men of the German Reichstag! 
In the midst of the mighty struggle for the freedom and future of the German nation, I have called on you to gather for this session today. The grounds for it are: to give our Volk insight into the historic uniqueness of the events we have lived through; to express our thanks to the deserving soldiers; and to direct, once again and for the last time, an appeal to general reason.
Whoever contrasts the factors which triggered this historic conflict with the extent, the 
greatness, and consequence of the military occurrences, must realize that the events and 
sacrifices of this struggle stand in no relation to the alleged causes, unless these causes 
themselves were but pretexts for intentions yet concealed. 
The program of the National Socialist Revolution, insofar as it concerned the future 
development of the Reich's relations with the surrounding world, was an attempt to obtain a 
revision of the Treaty of Versailles under all circumstances-and as far as this was possible-by 
peaceful means. 
This revision was by nature a necessity. The untenability of the provisions of Versailles 
lay not only in the humiliating discrimination, the disarmament of the German Volk secured 
with the result that they lost their rights, but above all in the resultant material destruction of 
the present and the intended destruction of the future of one of the greatest civilized peoples 
in the world, in the completely senseless accumulation of vast terrains under the mastery of a 
few states, in the depriving of the losers of irreplaceable foundations for life and indispensable 
vital goods. 
The fact that insightful men on the side of the adversary, even while this Diktat was 
being composed, warned against the conclusive realization of the terms of this work of 
lunacy, is proof of the persuasion prevalent even in these ranks that it would be impossible to 
maintain this Diktat in the future. Their misgivings and their protests were silenced by the 
assurance that the statutes of the newly created League of Nations secured the possibility of a 
revision of these provisions, indeed that it was authorized for such a revision. At no time was 
hope for a revision regarded as something improper, but always as something quite natural. 
Regrettably, contrary to the will of the men responsible for the Versailles Diktat, the 
institution in Geneva never regarded itself as an agency for procuring sensible revisions, but 
rather, from the beginning, as the custodian of the ruthless implementation and maintenance 
of the provisions of Versailles. All endeavors of democratic Germany failed to obtain, by 
means of revision, an equality of rights for the German Volk. 
It lies in the interest of the victor to portray as universally sanctified those conditions 
that benefit him, while the essence of the instinct of selfpreservation compels the vanquished 
to strive for a restoration of his general human rights. For him this Diktat penned by an 
arrogant enemy has even less force of law insofar as the victory of this enemy was a dishonest 
one. It was a rare misfortune that the German Reich was led exceedingly badly in the years 
1914-18. To this, and to the not otherwise instructed trust and faith of the German Volk in the 
word of democratic statesmen, must our fall be ascribed. 
It was thus that the joint British-French endeavor to portray the Versailles Treaty as 
some type of international or higher justice must have appeared to every honest German as 
nothing other than an insolent usurpation. The supposition that British or French statesmen of 
all people were custodians of justice itself, or even of human culture, was a stupid effrontery. 
It was an affront which is sufficiently elucidated by their own inferior performances in these 
fields. For rarely has this world been governed with a greater deficit of cleverness, morality, 
and culture than in that part of it which is presently at the mercy of the fury of certain 
democratic statesmen. 
The National Socialist Movement has, besides its delivery from the Jewishcapitalist 
shackles imposed by a plutocratic-democratic, dwindling class of exploiters at home, 
pronounced its resolve to free the Reich from the shackles of the Diktat of Versailles abroad. 
The German demands for a revision were an absolute necessity, a matter of course for the 
existence and the honor of any great people. Posterity will some day come to regard them as 
exceedingly modest. 
All these demands had to be carried through, in practice against the will of the British-French
potentates. Now more than ever we all see it as a success of the leadership of the Third 
Reich that the realization of these revisions was possible for years without resort to war. This 
was not the case-as the British and French demagogues would have it-because we were not 
then in a position to wage war. When it finally appeared as though, thanks to a gradually 
awakening common sense, a peaceful resolution of the remaining problems could be reached 
through international cooperation, the agreement concluded in this spirit on September 29, 
1938, at Munich by the four great states predominantly involved, was not welcomed by public 
opinion in London and Paris, but was condemned as a despicable sign of weakness. The 
Jewishcapitalist warmongers, their hands covered with blood, saw in the possible success of 
such a peaceful revision the vanishing of plausible grounds for the realization of their insane 
plans. 
Once again that conspiracy of pitiful, corrupt political creatures and greedy financial 
magnates made its appearance, for whom war is a welcome means to bolster business. The 
international Jewish poison of the peoples began to agitate against and to corrode healthy 
minds. Men of letters set out to portray decent men who desired peace as weaklings and 
traitors, to denounce opposition parties as a "fifth column," in order to eliminate internal 
resistance to their criminal policy of war. Jews and Freemasons, armament industrialists and 
war profiteers, international traders and stockjobbers, found political blackguards: desperados 
and glory seekers who represented war as something to be yearned for and hence wished for. 
It is to be ascribed to these criminal elements that the Polish State was incited to assume 
a posture which stood in no relation to the German demands and even less to the 
consequences that resulted. 
The German Reich, in particular with regard to Poland, has shown restraint ever since 
the National Socialist rise to power. One of the basest and stupidest provisions of the 
Versailles Diktat, namely the tearing away of an old German province from the Reich, already 
cried for a revision in and of itself. 
But what was it that I demanded at the time? I must in this context refer to my own 
person. No other statesman could have afforded to propose a solution to the German nation in 
the way I did. It comprised merely the return of Danzig-that is to say of an ancient, purely 
German city-to the Reich as well as the creation of a connection of the Reich to its severed 
province. And this only pursuant to plebiscites conducted, in turn, under the auspices of an 
international forum. If Mr. Churchill or any other warmongers had but a fraction of the sense 
of responsibility I felt toward Europe, they could not have played so perfidious a game. For it 
need be ascribed solely to these vested interests in war, both within Europe and beyond, that 
Poland rejected the proposals which neither compromised its existence nor its honor, and 
instead resorted to terror and arms. And it was truly superhuman restraint, without precedent, 
which for months led us, in spite of persistent assassination attempts on ethnic Germans-yes, 
indeed, in spite of the slaughter of tens of thousands of German Volksgenossen, to continue to 
search for a path toward peaceful understanding. For what was the situation like? One of the 
creations of the Diktat of Versailles, the most divorced from reality, a bogy inflated militarily 
and politically, insulted a state for many months, threatening to beat it, to fight battles before 
Berlin, to smash the German Army to pieces, to transfer the border to the Oder or the Elbe; it 
went on and on. And this other state, Germany, watches the goingson patiently for months, 
although one sweeping gesture would have sufficed to wipe this bubble inflated by stupidity 
and arrogance off the face of the earth. 
On September 2, this struggle could yet have been avoided. Mussolini made a proposal 
to put an immediate end to the hostilities and to negotiate peacefully. Though Germany saw 
its armies advancing victoriously, I accepted this nonetheless. But the Anglo-French 
warmongers needed war, not peace. 
And they needed a long war, as Mr. Chamberlain put the matter at the time. It was to 
last for at least three years, since they had in the meantime invested their capital in the 
armament industry, bought the necessary machinery, and now needed the precondition of time 
for the thriving of their business and for the amortization of their investments. And besides: 
what are Poles, Czechs, or other such nationalities to these citizens of the world? A German 
soldier found a curious document while rummaging through train wagons at the La Charite 
station on June 19, 1940. He immediately handed over the document- which bore a particular 
remark-to his superiors at departmental headquarters. From there the paper passed to 
agencies. It became clear that what had been discovered constituted evidence in a most 
important investigation. The train station was once more thoroughly searched. And it was thus 
that the High Command of the Wehrmacht came into possession of a collection of documents 
of unique historical significance. 
What was found were the secret files of the Allied High War Council, including the 
protocols of all sessions of this illustrious association. And this time it shall not be possible 
for Mr. Churchill to simply deny or lie about the authenticity of these documents, as he had 
attempted to do at the time in the case of documents found in Warsaw. For these documents 
feature handwritten notes in the margins penned by Gamelin, Daladier, Weygand, and so on. 
Hence these gentlemen are free either to admit to these or to disown them at any time. And 
these documents enlighten us as to the dealings of these gentlemen who have an interest in the 
war and in its expansion. They will above all demonstrate how these cold-blooded politicians 
and military men have used all these small peoples as a means to an end; how they tried to 
subject Finland to their interests; how they determined to make Norway and Sweden the 
theater of war; how they planned to set fire to the Balkans to procure the assistance of 100 
divisions from there; how they prepared to bomb Batum and Baku under the cover of a 
shrewd as well as unscrupulous reading of the Turkish neutrality in favor of their own 
interests; how they spun their web around the Netherlands and Belgium, pulling its strings 
constantly tighter, and finally engaging them in general staff agreements; as well as many 
other things. 
The documents afford us, moreover, a good picture of the entire amateurish method 
which these policy-making warmongers employed in an attempt to contain the fire they had 
kindled. These speak of their military pseudo-democracy which is jointly responsible for the 
gruesome fate which they have inflicted on hundreds of thousands and millions of soldiers of 
their own countries; of their barbaric lack of conscience which led them to drive their own 
peoples from their homes in cold blood and deliberately, in a mass evacuation whose military 
consequences were not necessarily favorable to them, while the general human results were 
shockingly gruesome. The same criminals are at the same time responsible for whipping up 
the Poles and inciting them to war. Eighteen days later this campaign ended-for all practical 
purposes. 
For a second time in the war, I spoke to the German Volk from this stand on October 6, 
1939. 1 was then able to report to it the glorious military defeat of the Polish State. I then also 
directed an appeal to reason to the men responsible in the enemy states and to their peoples. I 
warned against further pursuit of the war, the consequences of which could only be 
devastating. I warned the French especially not to start a war which, by necessity, would eat 
its way inward from the frontier and which, irrespective of its outcome, would have dire 
consequences. 
At this time, I directed an appeal to the rest of the world as well. However, as I said 
then, I did so with the apprehension that not only might I not be heard, but that thereby I 
might only elicit the wrath of the warmongers interested. And this is precisely what came to 
pass. 
The responsible elements in England and France smelt a rat, seeing my appeal as a 
dangerous assault on their lucrative profiteering in the war. 
Thus they hurriedly and eagerly declared that any thought of an understanding was a 
waste of time-yes, that this would even have to be regarded as a crime. The war had to be 
pursued in the name of culture, humanity, good fortune, progress, civilization, and-Good 
God!-even in the name of sacred religion, and in subservience to this end Negroes and 
Bushmen (Buschmenschen) had to be mobilized. And then, of course, victory would come 
about of its own accord, so to speak. It would then be within grasp; one need only reach out 
for it. And, naturally, so they said, I was very well aware of all this myself, and indeed had 
known it for a long time, and it was only because of this that I had laid before the world my 
appeal for peace. For, if I were in a position to believe in victory, I would not have 
approached England and France with an understanding without any conditions attached. In a 
few days these agitators succeeded in portraying me as a coward before the eyes of the world. 
I was scolded for my peace proposal, even personally insulted. Mr. Chamberlain 
virtually spat in my face before the world public and declined to even talk of peace, according 
to the directives of the warmongers and agitators backing him: Churchill, Duff Cooper, Eden, 
Hore-Belisha, and so on. Not to mention negotiating a peace. 
And it was thus that the big capitalist clique of war profiteers cried for a continuation of 
the war. And this continuation has now begun. 
I have already asserted, and all of you, my Volksgenossen, know this: if I do not speak 
for some time, or nothing much happens, then this does not mean that I am not doing 
anything. With us it is not necessary to multiply by a factor of five or twelve every airplane 
built, and then to proclaim it loudly to the world. 
Besides, hens would be ill-advised to cry out to the world every egg just laid. It would 
be all the more ill-considered of statesmen to announce projects barely beyond the planning 
stage, in nervous chatter, to the surrounding world, so as to inform it in a timely manner. To 
the excited garrulousness of two of these great democratic state leaders we owe ever-current 
information on the plans for an expansion of the war by our adversaries, and especially on the 
concentration of the war effort in Norway and Sweden. 
While the Anglo-French clique of warmongers was on the lookout for new opportunities 
to expand the war, and trying to trap new victims, I have labored to bring to a conclusion the 
organizational buildup of the Wehrmacht, to set up new units, to start up production for the 
war, to get material to flow, as well as to order training of the entire Wehrmacht for its new 
missions. 
Beyond this, however, the bad weather of the late autumn and winter forced a 
postponement of military operations. 
In the course of the month of March, we gained knowledge of British- French ambitions 
to intervene in the Russo-Finnish conflict; which was less to help the Finns and more to 
damage Russia, the latter being seen as a power cooperating with Germany. This ambition 
grew into the determination to intervene actively in Finland itself and, if possible, to gain a 
base for carrying the war to the Baltic Sea. And, at this time also, suggestions of the Allied 
High War Council appeared with ever greater insistence either to set afire the Balkans or Asia 
Minor in an effort to bar the Reich from its Russian and Romanian oil imports, or to gain 
possession of Swedish iron ore. Landings in Norway were to serve this end with the goal of 
occupying all ore railroads leading from Narvik across Sweden to the port of Lulea. 
The Russo-Finnish peace accords prevented, at the last minute, the carrying out of the 
already envisioned action in the Nordic States. Yet, merely a few days later, similar ambitions 
surfaced anew and precipitated a clear decision. 
England and France had agreed to move, in one sudden strike, to occupy numerous 
important locations in Norway under the pretext of preventing further support for the German 
war effort with Swedish ore. 
To secure access completely to the Swedish ore, they intended to march into Sweden 
themselves and to push aside the few forces Sweden could muster, either, if possible, in a 
friendly manner or, if necessary, by force. 
Of the imminence of this danger we were informed personally by the untameable 
garrulousness of the First Lord of the British Admiralty. Moreover, we received confirmation 
through a hint made by the French Premier Reynaud in a talk with a foreign diplomat. That 
the date had been postponed twice before the eighth of April, and that the occupation was
scheduled for the eighth, that the eighth, therefore, was the third and final day-of this we 
gained knowledge only recently. It was conclusively established only with the discovery of 
the protocols of the High Allied War Council. 
I then ordered the Wehrmacht, as soon as the danger of dragging the North into the war 
was becoming apparent, to take the appropriate measures. 
The case of the Altmark already demonstrated that the Norwegian Government was not 
willing to uphold its neutrality. Beyond this, reports of secret agents also revealed that, at least 
insofar as the leading heads of the Norwegian Government and the Allies were concerned, 
there was already full agreement. Finally, Norway's reaction to the violation of its territory by 
British minelayers dispelled all remaining doubts. 
The German operation, prepared down to the last detail, was launched. 
In fact the situation was a bit different from what we perceived it to be on April 9. 
While we then believed we had anticipated the British occupation by a few hours, we know 
today that the landing of the English troops had been scheduled for the eighth. The 
embarkation of the British contingents had already begun on the fifth and sixth. However, the 
moment the first news reached the British Admiralty of the German steps, i.e. that a German 
fleet had put to sea, this development so impressed Mr. Churchill that he decided to have the 
contingents already embarked disembark once again, so that the British fleet would first be 
able to search for and attack German ships. This attempt ended in failure. Only a single 
English destroyer came into contact with the German naval forces and was shot out of the 
water. This vessel could not relay any sort of message to the British Admiralty or to the fleet 
of the English naval combat contingents. And thus, on the ninth, the landing of German 
forward units was carried out along a coastal front stretching from Oslo north to Narvik. 
When news of this reached London, the First Lord of the Admiralty, Mr. Churchill, had 
already been on the lookout for many hours-eagerly awaiting first reports of the successes of 
his fleet. 
And this strike, my Deputies, was the most daring undertaking in the history of German 
warfare. Its successful implementation was possible only thanks to the leadership and the 
behavior of all German soldiers involved. 
What our three arms, the Army, the Navy, and the Luftwaffe, have accomplished in the 
struggle for Norway assures them mention in the records of the highest soldiership. 
The Navy conducted its operations, and later handled the troop transports, faced by an 
enemy who, all in all, possessed an almost tenfold superiority. All units of our young Reich 
War Navy have covered themselves with eternal glory in this venture. Only after the war will 
it be appropriate to discuss the difficulties faced especially in this campaign: the numerous 
unexpected setbacks, losses, and accidents suffered. To have overcome all this in the end goes 
to the credit of the behavior, the leadership, and the troops. 
The Luftwaffe, which often was the only means of transport and communications in so 
gigantically vast a terrain, outdid itself in all respects. 
Death-defying attacks on the enemy, on his ships and landing troops, are hardly more 
impressive than the tenacious heroics of the transport plane pilots, who in spite of 
unimaginably adverse weather started time and time again on their way to the land of the 
midnight sun, only to unload soldiers or freight in the midst of a snow storm. 
Norway's fjords have become the graveyard of many a British warship. 
Because of the uninterrupted wild attacks of German bombers and Stukas, the British 
fleet was forced to retreat from and to evacuate the very arena of which a few weeks earlier an 
English newspaper had so tastefully stated "that it would be a pleasure for England to oblige 
the German invitation to do battle there." The Army. The crossing already constituted a great 
challenge for the soldiers of the Army. In a few cases, airborne troops had opened up the area 
where they first set foot. Then division after division flooded the land which, due to its natural 
characteristics, already possessed considerable defenses, and which-as far as the Norwegian 
units were concerned-was very valiantly defended. Of the Englishmen who had landed in 
Norway, one can say that the only remarkable thing was the unscrupulousness with which 
such badly trained, insufficiently equipped, and miserably led soldiers had been put ashore as 
an expeditionary corps. From the beginning, they were certain to lose. By contrast, what our 
German infantry, the pioneers, what our artillery, our communications and construction units, 
have achieved in Norway can only be termed the proud heroism of struggle and labor. 
The word Narvik will enter our history as glorious evidence of the spirit of the 
Wehrmacht of the National Socialist Greater German Reich. 
The gentlemen Churchill, Chamberlain, Daladier, and so on, have, until recently, been 
exceedingly ill-informed as to the essence of the Greater German unification process. At the 
time, I announced that the future would probably teach them better. And I may well assume 
that in particular the deployment of mountain troops from the Ostmark at this front furthest 
north in our battle for freedom has enlightened them sufficiently as far as the Greater German 
Reich and its sons are concerned. 
It is lamentable that the grenadiers of Mr. Chamberlain did not pay sufficient and, above 
all, persistent attention to this conflict, and instead preferred to be satisfied with the first test 
of the inner disposition of the tribes of our Volk which have newly come to the Reich. 
General von Falkenhorst led operations in Norway. Lieutenant General Dietl was the 
hero of Narvik. 
Operations at sea were conducted under the leadership of Admiral General Saalwachter 
and the Admirals Carls and Boehm, and Vice Admiral Lutjens. Operations of the Luftwaffe 
were under the leadership of Colonel General Milch and Lieutenant General Geissler. The 
High Command of the Wehrmacht, Colonel General Keitel, as the Chief of the High 
Command, and General Jodl, as the Chief of the Wehrmacht leadership staff, were 
responsible for implementing my directives for the entire undertaking. 
Even before the conclusion of the campaign in Norway, news in the West took on an 
ever more threatening character. 
While, in fact, preparations had been made before the war to break through the Maginot 
Line in the event of a necessary conflict with France or England, an undertaking for which the 
German troops had been trained and had been equipped with the weaponry required, the 
course of events in the first months of the war compelled us to contemplate the possibility of 
moving against Holland and Belgium. While Germany had positioned hardly any units against 
Belgium or the Netherlands, other than those necessary for security reasons, as well as 
beginning to expand upon its fortification system, a visible mass of French units began to 
array itself along the French-Belgian border. In particular, the concentration of tanks and 
motorized divisions in this sector revealed that it was intended-at any rate it was possible-for 
these to be hurled at lighting speed through Belgium at the German border. 
Decisive in this context was the following observation: While, in the case of a loyal 
reading of the Belgian-Dutch neutrality, these two countries would have been forced, by the 
concentration of strong Anglo- French forces at their border, to focus their attention on the 
West, both began to reduce their troop strengths along this border to the same degree they 
began to build up the units stationed along the border with Germany. News of ongoing talks at 
the general staff level also shed a peculiar light on [this interpretation of] Belgian-Dutch 
neutrality. I need not emphasize that these talks, had they been conducted in the spirit of true 
neutrality, would have had to be held with both sides. Besides this, such an intensification of 
signs indicating that a move of the Anglo-French troops across Holland and Belgium against 
the German industrial area was taking place required that we should regard this threat as a 
serious danger. 
Hence I took the German Wehrmacht into my confidence, informing it of the possibility 
of such a development and entrusting it with the appropriate, detailed directives. In numerous 
conferences at the High Command of the Wehrmacht with the Commanders in Chief of the 
three branches of the Wehrmacht, the leaders of the Army groups and of the armies, down to 
the leaders of important, individual undertakings, the tasks facing us were enumerated and 
thoroughly discussed. Among the troops these were taken up with great understanding, as the 
basis for a special type of training. 
Correspondingly, the entire German deployment underwent the necessary adjustments. 
The thorough observations which had been conducted everywhere gradually led to the 
compelling recognition that, from the beginning of May on, an Anglo-French advance had to 
be expected at any moment. 
In the days of May 6 and 7, telephone conversations between London and Paris took 
place, of which we gained intelligence and which reinforced suspicions that an invasion of the 
Netherlands and Belgium by the so-called Allies had to be expected at any moment. Thus on 
the following day, May 8, 1 ordered an immediate attack for May 10, 5:35 in the morning. 
The basic thought behind this operation was to deploy, without worrying about 
peripheral successes, the entire Wehrmacht-especially the Army and the Luftwaffe-in so 
decisive a manner that the envisioned operations had to attain the complete annihilation of the 
Anglo-French forces. In contrast to the Schlieffen Plan of the year 1914, I ordered the main 
thrust of the operation along the left flank of the breakthrough front, while, however, keeping 
up appearances of a reversed version. This deception was successful. Conduct of the entire 
operation was made easy for me by measures our adversaries themselves took. For the 
concentration of the entire Anglo-French motorized combat forces against Belgium revealed 
as certain that the High Command of the Allied armies had arrived at the decision to advance 
most speedily into this area. 
We relied on the steadfastness of all German infantry divisions deployed in the thrust 
against the right flank of the Anglo-French motorized Army Group. 
Such a drive had to lead to its complete shattering and dissolution-yes, perhaps even to 
its encirclement. 
As a second operation, I had planned the taking of the Seine up to Le Havre, as well as 
securing bases at the Somme and Aisne for a third assault. This was intended to break 
through, with strong forces across the plateau at Langres, to the Swiss border. Reaching the 
coast south of Bordeaux was to conclude operations. Within this framework and in this 
sequence, operations were in fact carried out. 
The success of this mightiest sequence of battles in world history we owe first and 
foremost to the German soldier himself. He held his own at all places he was deployed to the 
highest degree. The German tribes all share equally in this glory. 
The soldiers of the young, new Reichsgaus, added only since 1938, also fought in an 
exemplary fashion and took a heavy toll of lives. The heroic risk of life by all Germans in this 
war will make the emerging National Socialist Greater German Reich eternally sacred and 
dear not only to the present generation, but to all that follow. 
When I undertake to honor all those forces to whose activities we owe this most 
glorious of victories, then first mention is due to a leadership which, in particular in this 
campaign, has met the highest of requirements. 
The Army. It has performed the tasks imposed upon it, under the leadership of Colonel 
General von Brauchitsch and his Chief of Staff Haider, in a truly glorious fashion. 
If the leadership of the German Army of long ago was regarded as the best in the world, 
then it is deserving today of at least equal admiration. Yes, since success is decisive for 
passing judgment, the leadership of the new German Army must be considered even better. 
Subdivided into three Army Groups, the Army in the West was placed under the orders 
of Colonel Generals Ritter von Leeb, von Rundstedt, and von Bock. 
The Army Group of General Ritter von Leeb had the initial mission to maintain the left 
flank of the German front in the West, stretching from the Swiss border up to the Moselle, in 
a state of highest defensive readiness. It was anticipated that, in the later course of the 
operation, this front would also actively intervene in the battle of destruction with two armies 
under the leadership of Colonel General von Witzleben and General Dollmann. 
At 5:35 in the morning of May 10, the two Army Groups under Colonel Generals von 
Rundstedt and von Bock launched the attack. It was their mission, along the entire front from 
the river Moselle to the North Sea, to break through the enemy lines along the frontier; to 
occupy the Netherlands; to move against Antwerp and the troops stationed at Dyle; to take 
Liege; and, above all, to reach the left flank along the river Meuse with massive forces for the 
attack, to force a crossing between Namur and Carignan with a main thrust of the tank and 
motorized divisions at Sedan and, in the further course of operations, to assemble all available 
tank and motorized divisions to push onward, along the system of canals and rivers between 
the Aisne and the Somme, to the sea. 
To Rundstedt's southern Army Group fell also the important task of preventing a 
repetition of the Miracle of the Marne of 1914. He was to accomplish this task by securing, 
according to plan, the cover of the left flank in the course of the breakthrough. 
This massive operation, which already decided the further course of the war, led, as 
planned, to the annihilation of the main mass of the French Army as well as of the entire 
British Expeditionary Force, and already added luster to the German leadership. 
Besides the two leaders of the Army Groups and their Chiefs of Staff, Lieutenant 
General von Sodenstern and Lieutenant General von Salmuth, the following leaders of the 
Army are deserving of the highest of distinctions: Colonel General von Kluge as leader of the 
Fourth Army; Colonel General List as leader of the Twelfth Army; Colonel General von 
Reichenau as leader of the Sixth Army; General von Kuchler as leader of the Eighteenth 
Army; General Busch as leader of the Sixteenth Army; and the Generals von Kleist, 
Guderian, Hoth, and Hoeppner as leaders of the tank and motorized troops. 
Large additional numbers of generals and officers who distinguished themselves in 
these operations are known to you already, my Deputies, because of the high distinctions 
granted them. 
The further conduct of the operation in the general direction of the Aisne and the Seine 
was not intended to conquer Paris primarily, but rather to create, or better secure, a basis for a 
breakthrough to the Swiss border. This massive offensive action, thanks to the outstanding 
leadership of all grades, also went according to plan. 
A change of personnel in the High Command of the French Army, which had 
meanwhile taken place, was to revive its resistance and to bring about a change, much desired 
by the Allies, in the fortunes of the battle so unhappily begun. 
Indeed it was possible to get the German armies and their offensive actions going, at 
several locations, only after overcoming the strongest of resistance. 
Here, not only the courage, but also the training of the German soldier had the 
opportunity to hold its own to a high degree. Inspired by the zeal of countless officers and 
non-commissioned officers, as well as of individual men of valor, the infantry itself, time and 
time again, was compelled onward even in the most difficult of situations. 
Paris fell! The breaking of the enemy's resistance at the Aisne opened the way to a 
breakthrough to the Swiss border. In one gigantic envelopment the armies stormed to the back 
of the Maginot Line. Now abandoning its reserve, the Army Group Leeb went on the 
offensive in two locations west of Saarbrucken and Neubreisach. Under orders from Generals 
von Witzleben and Dollmann, they achieved the breakthrough. And thus it was possible not 
only to surround the gigantic front of the French resistance, but to dissolve it into little 
particles and to force it to the well-known capitulation. 
These operations were crowned by the now generally beginning advance of the German 
armies. At their head moved the incomparable Panzer and motor divisions of the Army with 
the goal of driving a left flank down the Rhone in the direction of Marseilles, and a right flank 
across the Loire in the direction of Bordeaux and the Spanish border. This was to destroy the 
dissolving remains of the French Army, or rather to occupy French territory. 
I will report in detail at a later point on the intervention of our allies in this war. When 
Marshal Petain offered France's laying down of arms, he was not laying down a weapon he 
still held. Rather he merely put an end to a situation completely untenable in the eyes of every 
soldier. Only the bloody dilettantism of a Mr. Churchill either fails to comprehend as much or 
lies about it in spite of better knowledge. 
In the second, third, and last phase of this war, the following Army leaders 
distinguished themselves as did the earlier mentioned generals: Colonel General von 
Witzleben; the Generals von Weichs, Dollmann, Strauss. The valiant divisions and standards 
of the Waffen SS also fought within the framework of these armies. 
When I express my gratitude and that of the German Volk to the aforementioned 
generals, in their capacity as leaders of the Army and Army Groups, this applies at the same 
time to all other officers, all of whom it is not possible to mention by name, and especially to 
all the nameless workers of the General Staff. 
In this battle, my Deputies, the rank and file of Germany has proved itself to be what it 
has always been: the best infantry in the world. 
And with it all other branches of the Army compete: artillery and pioneers, and, above 
all, the young units of our tanks and motorized troops. The German Panzer weapon, through 
this war, has made its entry into world history. The men of the Waffen SS share in the glory. 
Yet the communications units, the construction units of the pioneers, the railroad construction 
men, etc., are also worthy, in accordance with their performance, of the highest praise we 
have to offer. In the wake of the armies followed the commandos of the Todt Organization, of 
the Reich Labor Service, and of the NSKK, and these also helped to repair roads, bridges, as 
well as to restore order to traffic. 
Within the framework of the Army, this time there also fought parts of the Flak artillery 
of our Luftwaffe. At the foremost front, they helped to break the enemy's power of resistance 
and attack. A detailed account of their effectiveness can be rendered only at a later date. 
The Luftwaffe itself. At dawn on the morning of May 10, thousands of fighter planes 
and dive bombers, under the cover of fighters and destroyers, descended on enemy airfields. 
Within a few days uncontested air superiority was assured. And not for one minute in the 
further course of the battle was it allowed to slip. 
Only where temporarily no German airplanes were sighted, could enemy fighters and 
bombers make short appearances. Besides this, their activities were restricted to night action. 
The Field Marshal [Goring] had the Luftwaffe under his orders during this mission in the war. 
Its tasks were: 1. to destroy the enemy air forces, i.e. to remove these from the skies; 2. 
to support directly or indirectly the fighting troops by uninterrupted attacks; 3. to destroy the 
enemy's means of command and movement; 4. to wear down and break the enemy's morale 
and will to resist; 5. to land parachute troops as advance units. 
The manner of their deployment in the operation in general, as well as their adjustment 
to the tactical demands of the moment, was exceptional. Without the valor of the Army, the 
successes attained should never have been possible. 
Equally true is it that, without the heroic mission of the Luftwaffe, the valor of the 
Army should have been for naught. Both Army and Luftwaffe are deserving of the greatest 
glory! The deployment of the Luftwaffe in the West took place under the personal command 
of Field Marshal Goring. His Chief of Staff: Major General Jeschonnek. 
Both aerial fleets stood under orders of General der Flieger Sperrle and General der 
Flieger Kesselring. The Aviation Corps subordinate to them stood under orders of Generals 
der Flieger Grauert and Keller, Lieutenant General Loerzer, and Lieutenant General Ritter 
von Greim, as well as of Major General Freiherr von Richthofen. Both Flak Corps stood 
under orders of Flak Artillery General Weise and Major General Dessloch. The Ninth Aerial 
Division under Major General Coeler deserves special mention. The Commander of the 
Parachute Troops, General der Flieger Student, was severely wounded. The further conduct of 
the battle in the air in Norway was orchestrated by General der Flieger Stumpff. 
While millions of German soldiers of the Army, Luftwaffe, and Waffen SS took part in 
these battles, others could not be spared at home as they were needed for the buildup of the 
local reserve formations. Many of the most capable officers-as bitter as this was for them- 
were forced to conduct and oversee the training of those soldiers who, as reserve units, or 
perhaps in new formations, were to go to the front only later. Despite my sympathy for the 
inner sentiments of those who felt at a disadvantage, the greater common interest, as a matter 
of principle, was decisive. Party and State, Army, Navy, Luftwaffe, and SS sent every man to 
the front whom they were able to spare somehow. Yet, without securing a Replacement 
Army, a reserve air force, reserve SS formations, as well as Party and State in general, the war 
at the front could not have been waged. 
As the organizers of the Replacement Army at home and of the armament and supplies 
for the Luftwaffe, the following have attained special merit: Artillery General Fromm and 
General der Flieger Udet. 
I cannot conclude the enumeration of all these meritorious generals and admirals 
without paying tribute to those who are my closest co-workers in the Staff of the High 
Command of the Wehrmacht: Colonel General Keitel as Chief of the High Command of the 
Wehrmacht, and Major General Jodl as his Chief of Staff. They have made the greatest of 
contributions to the realization of my plans and ideas throughout long months of many cares 
and much work. 
An appreciation of the accomplishments of our Navy and its leaders will only be 
possible, to a full extent, at the end of the war. When I now conclude these purely military 
reflections on events, truth compels me to state the historic fact that none of this would have 
been possible without the disposition of the home front-or without, at its fore, the foundation, 
the work, and the activities of the National Socialist Party. 
Already in 1919, in the age of great decline, it proclaimed its program for the 
establishment of a German People's Army and has stood up for it throughout the decades with 
a zealous determination. Without its activities, the conditions necessary for both the re- 
emergence of the German Reich and the creation of a German Wehrmacht would not have 
existed. Above all, it lent the struggle its ideological (weltanschaulich) foundation. To the 
senseless sacrifice of life of our democratic opponents in the interests of their plutocracies, it 
opposes the defense of a Volksgemeinschaft. Its activities have resulted in a solidarity 
between front and homeland, which regrettably did not exist in the World War. From its 
ranks, therefore, I should like to name the men, who along with countless others, attained 
great merit in securing the opportunity to celebrate victory in a new Germany: Party comrade 
Reich Minister Hess, himself an old soldier of the World War, has been one of the most loyal 
fighters for the erection of the present state and its Wehrmacht ever since the early days of the 
foundation of the Movement. 
Party comrade Chief of Staff of the SA Lutze has organized the mass of millions of SA 
men, in the sense of supporting the state to the utmost, and has secured its pre- and post- 
military training. Party comrade Himmler has organized the entire security of our Reich as 
well as the units of the Waff en SS. 
Party comrade Hierl has been the founder and leader of the Reich Labor Service. Party 
comrade Ley is the guarantor of the behavior of the German worker. Party comrade and Reich 
Minister Major General Todt is the organizer of the production of armament and ammunition 
and has gained eternal merit as a master builder in the construction of our massive, strategic 
[!] road network as well as of the fortified front in the West. Party comrade Minister Goebbels 
is the leader of a propaganda apparatus whose refinement is best ascertained in comparison 
with that of the World War. 
Among the numerous organizations of the home front, there remain to be mentioned the 
organization of the Kriegswinterhilfswerk, and of the NS Volkswohlfahrt under the leadership 
of Party comrade Hilgenfeldt, as well as the German Red Cross, and moreover the Reich Air 
Defense Association under the leadership of Flak Artillery General von Schroeder. 
I cannot conclude this tribute without thanking the one man who, for years, has engaged 
himself in loyal, untiring, self -devouring work to realize my foreign policy directives. The 
name of Party comrade von Ribbentrop as Reich Foreign Minister shall remain tied for all 
eternity to the political rise of the German nation. 
My Deputies ! I have determined, as Fuhrer and Supreme Commander of the German 
Wehrmacht, to honor the most meritorious generals before the one forum which in truth 
represents the entire German Volk. I must place at their forefront a man to whom I have 
difficulty in expressing sufficient gratitude for the services which tie his name to the 
Movement, to the State, and, above all, to the German Luftwaffe. 
Since the days of the foundation of the SA, Party Comrade Goring has been bound up in 
the development and rise of the Movement. Since we came to power, his capacity for work 
and willingness to take responsibility have accomplished deeds in numerous fields for the 
German Volk and the German Reich which cannot be excluded from the history of our Volk 
and Reich. 
Since the rebuilding of the German Wehrmacht, he has become the creator of the 
German Luftwaffe. It is granted to only a few mortals to create in the course of their lives a 
military instrument practically from nothing and to transform it into the mightiest weapon of 
its kind in the world. Above all, he has lent it his spirit. 
Field Marshal Goring as creator of the German Luftwaffe, and as an individual man, has 
made the greatest contribution to the rebuilding of the German Wehrmacht. As the leader of 
the German Luftwaffe he has, in the course of the war up to date, created the prerequisites for 
victory. His merits are unequaled! I name him Reichsmarschall of the Greater German Reich 
and award him the Grand Cross of the Iron Cross. 
For services rendered to the victory of German weaponry in the struggle for the freedom 
and future of our Greater German Reich, I hereby promote: 
The Commander in Chief of the Army, Colonel General von Brauchitsch, to the rank of 
Field Marshal; 
Colonel General von Rundstedt, Commander in Chief of Army Group A, to the rank of 
Field Marshal; 
Colonel General Ritter von Leeb, Commander in Chief of Army Group C, to the rank of 
Field Marshal; 
Colonel General von Bock, Commander in Chief of Army Group B, to the rank of Field 
Marshal; 
Colonel General List, Commander in Chief of the Twelfth Army, to the rank of Field 
Marshal; 
Colonel General von Kluge, Commander in Chief of the Fourth Army, to the rank of 
Field Marshal; 
Colonel General von Witzleben, Commander in Chief of the First Army, to the rank of 
Field Marshal; 
Colonel General von Reichenau, Commander in Chief of the Sixth Army, to the rank of 
Field Marshal. 
I promote: 
General Haider, Chief of the General Staff of the Army, to the rank of Colonel General; 
General Dollmann, Commander in Chief of the Seventh Army, to the rank of Colonel 
General; 
General Freiherr von Weichs, Commander in Chief of the Second Army, to the rank of 
Colonel General; 
General von Kuchler, Commander in Chief of the Eighteenth Army, to the rank of 
Colonel General; 
General Busch, Commander in Chief of the Sixteenth Army, to the rank of Colonel 
General; 
General Strauss, Commander in Chief of the Ninth Army, to the rank of Colonel 
General; 
General von Falkenhorst, Military Commander in Norway, to the rank of Colonel 
General; 
General von Kleist, Commanding General of the Twenty-Second Army Corps, to the 
rank of Colonel General; 
General Ritter von Schobert, Commanding General of the Seventh Army Corps, to the 
rank of Colonel General; 
General Guderian, Commanding General of the Nineteenth Army Corps, to the rank of 
Colonel General; 
General Hoth, Commanding General of the Fifteenth Army Corps, to the rank of 
Colonel General; 
General Haase, Commanding General of the Third Army Corps, to the rank of Colonel 
General; 
General Hoeppner, Commanding General of the Sixteenth Army Corps, to the rank of 
Colonel General; 
General Fromm, Chief of Military Armament and Commander in Chief of the 
Replacement Army, to the rank of Colonel General. 
In consideration of unequaled services rendered I promote: 
Lieutenant General Dietl, Commanding General of the Mountain Corps in Norway, to 
the rank of Infantry General. As the first officer with the German Wehrmacht, I award him the 
Oak Leaves of the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross. 
Pending a later recognition of all the leaders and officers of the Reich Navy, I promote: 
Admiral Carls, the Commanding Admiral of the Naval Station Baltic Sea and 
Commander in Chief of the Naval Troops East, to the rank of Admiral General. 
In appreciation of the unequaled accomplishments of the German Luftwaffe, I promote: 
Colonel General Milch to the rank of Field Marshal; 
General der Flieger Sperrle to the rank of Field Marshal; 
General der Flieger Kesselring to the rank of Field Marshal. 
I promote: 
General der Flieger Stumpff to the rank of Colonel General; 
General der Flieger Grauert to the rank of Colonel General; 
General der Flieger Keller to the rank of Colonel General; 
General of the Flak Artillery Weise to the rank of Colonel General; 
General der Flieger Udet to the rank of Colonel General. 
Furthermore, I promote to the rank of General der Flieger: 
Lieutenant General Geissler; 
Major General Jeschonnek; 
Lieutenant General Loerzer; 
Lieutenant General Ritter von Greim; 
and Major General Freiherr von Richthofen. 
In my High Command of the Wehrmacht I promote: 
Colonel General Keitel to the rank of Field Marshal; 
Major General Jodl to the rank of Artillery General. 
In announcing these promotions on the occasion of the most successful campaign in our 
history, before this forum and so before the entire nation, I thereby honor the entire 
Wehrmacht of the National Socialist Greater German Reich. 
I cannot conclude my reflections on this battle without thinking of our ally here. Ever 
since there has been a National Socialist regime, its foreign policy has embraced two goals: 1. 
bringing about a true understanding and friendship with Italy and, 2. bringing about the same 
relationship with England. 
My Party Comrades, you know that I was as driven by these conceptions twenty years 
ago as I was later. I have dealt with and defended these ideas as a journalist and in my 
speeches countless times, as long as I myself was a mere opposition leader in the democratic 
republic. I immediately undertook, as soon as the German Volk entrusted me with its 
leadership, to realize these oldest goals of National Socialist foreign policy in practical terms. 
It still saddens me today that, in spite of all my endeavors, I have not succeeded in obtaining 
this friendship with England which, I believe, should have been a blessing for both peoples; 
and especially because I was not able to do so despite my persistent, sincere efforts. 
However, I am all the more happy that at least the first point in this program of my 
foreign policy was in fact realized. This I owe, above all, to the genius who today stands at the 
head of the Italian people. For it was possible only owing to his epoch-making activities for 
the two intellectually related revolutions to find each other, to finally seal in jointly-shed 
blood the alliance which is destined to procure a new life for Europe. That I myself have the 
honor to be a friend of this man gladdens me all the more in view of the unique story of his 
life, which bears evidence of as many similarities to my own as our two revolutions do to 
each other, and, beyond this, as does the history of the unification and rise of our two nations. 
Ever since the resurrection of the German Volk, we have heard many voices of 
understanding from Italy. On the foundation of this mutual understanding grew a living 
community of interests. And finally this was set down in treaties. And when, last year, 
contrary to my expressed will and desire, this war was forced on the German Reich, a 
consultation on the further conduct of our two states involved Mussolini and me. The benefit 
derived for the Reich from the behavior of Italy was extraordinary. Not only economically did 
we profit from the situation and the stance of Italy, but also militarily. 
From the beginning, Italy tied down strong forces of our enemies and curtailed above all 
their freedom of strategic disposition. And when the Duce determined that the time had come 
to take a stand with the weapon in his fist against the unbearable and persistent violation of 
Italy, damage done in particular by French and British transgression, and the King issued the 
declaration of war, then this was done with complete freedom of decision. All the greater 
must our gratitude be. 
The intercession of Italy has sped up and assisted in opening France's eyes to the utter 
hopelessness of continued resistance. 
And ever since, our ally has fought on the peaks and ridges of the Alps and now on the 
vast plains encompassed in his sphere of interest. Especially his present air attacks and battles 
at sea are being led with the spirit peculiar to the Fascist Revolution. Here they elicit the spirit 
which binds National Socialism to Fascist Italy. Italy's pain is Germany's pain, as we have 
experienced in recent days in view of the death of Balbo. Its joy is our joy. 
And our cooperation in the political and military fields is a complete one. 
It will erase the injustice done the German and Italian peoples throughout the centuries. 
For, at the end of everything, stands the shared victory! And when I now turn to speak of the 
future, my Deputies, I do so not to boast or brag. This I can well leave up to others who are in greater need of it, as for example Mr. Churchill. What I want to do is to paint a picture of the 
present situation, bare of exaggeration, as it is and as I see it. 
1 . The course of events in the ten months of war now lying behind us has proved my 
assessments correct and those of our adversaries incorrect. 
When the British so-called statesmen assure us that their country emerges strengthened 
from every defeat and failure, then it surely is no arrogance when I inform them that we 
emerge at least equally strengthened from our successes. 
On September 1 of the year now past, I already explained to you that, come what may, 
neither the force of weapons nor time shall force Germany to the ground. The Reich today 
stands stronger militarily than ever before. 
You have seen the losses, individually surely heavy, though as a total relatively low, 
which the German Wehrmacht has suffered in battle within the past three months. When you 
consider that, within this time, we erected a front which reaches from the North Cape to the 
Spanish border, then our losses are extraordinarily low, especially when compared with those 
of the World War. The cause lies-besides with the, on an average, excellent leadership-with 
the outstanding tactical training of the individual soldier and of the units, as well as with the 
cooperation among the branches of the service. 
Another cause is to be found with the quality and efficiency of the new weaponry. A 
third cause lies with the conscious refusal to pursue what is called prestige. I myself have, on 
principle, labored to avoid any attack or operation which was not necessary in the context of 
the actual annihilation of the adversary, but was instead to be carried out for the sake of what 
was regarded as prestige. 
In spite of all of this, naturally, we had anticipated far higher losses in many instances. 
The manpower saved will benefit us in the further pursuit of the struggle for freedom forced 
upon us. At present, many of our divisions in France are being withdrawn and reassigned to 
their bases at home. Many men are able to take leaves of absence. Weaponry and equipment 
are being either repaired or replaced by new material. All in all, the Wehrmacht today is 
stronger than ever before. 
2. Weaponry. The loss of weaponry in Norway, especially in the campaigns against 
Holland, Belgium, and France, is void of any significance. It stands in no relation to 
production. Army and Luftwaffe possess at this moment-as I am speaking to you-equipment 
more complete and stronger than before we intervened in the West. 
3. Ammunition. Provisions for ammunition were so well executed, the stocks are so 
vast, that in many areas production must now be curtailed or rerouted since the existing 
depots and warehouses, even given the greatest of efforts, in part are no longer capable of 
absorbing further deliveries. As in Poland, the consumption of ammunition was unexpectedly 
low. It stands in no relation to the stockpiles. The total reserves of the Army and the 
Luftwaffe are higher at present, for all categories of weapons, than before the attack in the 
West. 
4. Raw materials essential to the war effort. Thanks to the Four- Year Plan, Germany 
was prepared for the greatest of strains in an exemplary fashion. No armed forces in the world, other than Germany's Wehrmacht, have so benefited from a shift away from imported 
raw materials essential to the war effort to such as can be found within the country. 
Thanks to the work of the Reichsmarschall, this transformation of the German economy 
into a war economy characterized by self-sufficiency was already achieved in peacetime. [!] 
We possess reserves of the two most important raw materials, coal and iron, in what I may 
well term an unlimited quantity. Fuel supplies are more than enough for consumption. The 
capacities of our production are increasing and, within a short time, they will suffice- even 
should imports cease-to satisfy demand completely. 
Our advance metal collections have so increased our metal reserves that we can face a 
war of no matter what duration. We shall reign supreme no matter what happens. Added to 
this are the enormous possibilities that come from a yet immeasurable loot and including the 
development of the territories we have occupied. Germany and Italy possess, within the 
confines of the area they regulate and control, an economic potential of about 200 million 
men, of whom only 130 million are soldiers, with seventy million free to be employed 
exclusively in different economic activities. 
I informed you on September 1, my Deputies, that for the further conduct of the war I 
had ordered the initial implementation of a new Five-Year Plan. I can now assure you that all 
measures to this end have been taken. Come what may, I now no longer regard time as a 
threatening factor, not even in a general sense. This time, the measures taken in a timely 
fashion have also secured foodstuffs for a war of no matter how long a duration. 
5. The attitude of the German Volk. Thanks to National Socialist education, the German 
Volk has not approached this war with the superficiality of a "hurrah" patriotism, but with the 
zealous determination of a race which knows the fate awaiting it should it suffer defeat. The 
endeavors to subvert this unity, launched by the propaganda of our enemies, are as stupid as 
they are ineffective. Ten months of war have rendered this zealousness all the more profound. 
And, in general, it is a great misfortune that the world's opinion is not formed by men who 
see things as they are, but by men who see them as they want them to be. 
In the last days, I have seen through and studied countless documents from the Allied 
Headquarters' "Ark of the Covenant." Among other things, these contain reports on the 
atmosphere in Germany, or memoranda on the disposition and inner attitude of the German 
Volk. The authors of these reports were, in part, also diplomats. Reading through these 
reports, one cannot help wondering whether their authors were blind, stupid, or simply vile 
scoundrels. I will admit without further ado that, naturally, here in Germany also there have 
been, and perhaps still are today, certain individuals who have watched the Third Reich's 
conquests with a feeling akin to regret. Incorrigible reactionaries or blind nihilists may well be 
saddened in their hearts that things came out not as they had willed them. But their numbers 
are ridiculously small and their significance is smaller yet. 
Regrettably, this scum of the nation appears to have been chosen by the outside world as 
a measuring stick by which to assess the German Volk. And from this, the sick minds of 
failed statesmen derive the last points of orientation to cling to for new hope. As needed, the 
British warlords designate a "General Hunger" or an "imminent revolution" as their new 
allies. There is no nonsense that these people would not dish up for their own nation in order 
to cling to their positions for yet a few more weeks. 
The German Volk has proved, above all, its inner attitude through its sons who are 
fighting on the battlefield. Within weeks they have beaten Germany's strongest military 
adversary and have destroyed him. Their spirit was and remains the spirit of the German 
homeland. 
6. The surrounding world. In the eyes of English politicians, their last hopes, besides 
those resting with the loyal and allied nations, lie with a series of propped-up heads of state 
without thrones; statesmen without subjects; and generals without armies; as well as on 
renewed complications they believe they can conjure up thanks to their well-proven deftness 
in such matters. A true Ahasuerus amongst these hopes is the belief in a possible new 
estrangement to separate Germany and Russia. 
German-Russian relations have been established for good. The reason for this was that 
England and France, with the support of certain smaller states, incessantly attributed to 
Germany ambitions to conquer terrain which lay completely outside the sphere of German 
interests. At one time, Germany was eyeing the occupation of the Ukraine; then again it 
sought to invade Finland; at another time it was claimed that Romania was threatened; then 
finally even Turkey was endangered. Given these circumstances, I held it to be proper to 
undertake, above all, with Russia, a sober delineation of interests, to once and for all clarify 
what Germany believes it must regard as its sphere of interest in securing its future, and what 
in turn Russia holds to be vital to its existence. 
Based on this clear delineation of mutual spheres of interest, the Russo- German 
relationship was revised. It is childish to hope that in the course of this revision tensions might 
arise anew between Germany and Russia. 
Germany has not stepped outside its sphere of interest, and neither has Russia. England 
is deceived in its hope of bringing about a new European crisis to reprieve its own situation, 
insofar as the relationship of Germany to Russia is concerned. Though the British statesmen 
are chronically slow in their comprehension of almost everything, they will surely come to 
understand this in the course of time. I fancy I correctly forecast the future development of 
this war in my speech of October 6. I assure you, my Deputies, that not for a moment could I 
doubt victory. And, unless one feels the need to see signs and guarantees for the final victory 
exclusively in defeats, then I believe that the course of events up to this point has proved me 
right. As I was certain of this course of events, I offered my hand to France and England at the 
time for an understanding. 
You still recall the answer I received. My arguments against the nonsense of pursuing 
this war, on the certainty of gaining nothing, even under the most favorable of circumstances, 
and of losing much, were mocked and scoffed at, or passed over. 
I promptly assured you then that I feared, because of my peace proposal, to be decried 
as a cockerel who no longer wants to fight because he is no longer able to fight. And this is 
exactly what happened. I now believe that France- less the guilty statesmen than the people- 
thinks differently about this October 6 today. What nameless misery has befallen this great 
country and people since then. I shall not even mention the toll of suffering the war has placed 
on the soldier. For above this stands the suffering caused by the recklessness of those who 
drove millions of people from their homes without proper cause, who were compelled by the 
thought that this might somehow hamper the German war effort. This premise defied 
comprehension: this evacuation was mostly to the detriment of the Allied war effort and,
moreover, it was the most cruel experience for the unfortunate afflicted. The injury the 
gentlemen Churchill and Reynaud have done millions of people, through their advice and 
commands-this they can neither justify in this world nor in the next. 
All of this-as I said-need not have happened. For peace was all I asked of France and 
England in October. But the gentlemen war profiteers wanted a continuation of this war at all 
cost. They have it now. 
I myself am too much a soldier not to comprehend the tragedy of such a development. 
Still all I hear from London are cries-not the cries of the masses, but of the politicians-that this 
war must now, all the more, be pursued. I do not know if these politicians have an inkling of 
just how this war is in fact to be pursued. They declare that they will continue this war, and 
should England fall, then they will do so from Canada. I do not believe this means that the 
English people will all emigrate to Canada, but rather that the gentlemen war profiteers will 
all retreat to Canada by themselves. I fear the people will have to remain behind in England. 
And, assuredly, they will see the war with different eyes in London than their so-called 
leaders in Canada. 
Believe me, my Deputies, I feel an inner disgust at this type of unscru-pulous 
parliamentarian annihilators of peoples and states. It is almost painful to me to have been 
chosen by Providence to give a shove to what these men have brought to the point of falling. 
It was not my ambition to wage wars, but to build up a new social state of the highest culture. 
And every year of war takes me away from my work. And the cause of this robbery is those 
ludicrous zeroes whom one could at best call nature's political run of the mill, insofar as their 
corrupted vileness does not brand them as something out of the ordinary. 
Mr. Churchill has repeated the declaration that he wants war. About six weeks ago now, 
he launched this war in an arena in which he apparently believes he is quite strong: namely, in 
the air war against the civilian population, albeit beneath the deceptive slogan of a so-called 
war against military objectives. Ever since Freiburg, these objectives have turned out to be 
open cities, markets, villages, residential housing, hospitals, schools, kindergartens, and 
whatever else happens to be hit. 
Up to now I have given little by way of response. This is not intended to signal, 
however, that this is the only response possible or that it shall remain this way. 
I am fully aware that with our response, which one day will come, will also come the 
nameless suffering and misfortune of many men. Naturally, this does not apply to Mr. 
Churchill himself since by then he will surely be secure in Canada, where the money and the 
children of the most distinguished of war profiteers have already been brought. But there will 
be great tragedy for millions of other men. And Mr. Churchill should make an exception and 
place trust in me when as a prophet I now proclaim: A great world empire will be destroyed. 
A world empire which I never had the ambition to destroy or as much as harm. Alas, I am 
fully aware that the continuation of this war will end only in the complete shattering of one of 
the two warring parties. Mr. Churchill may believe this to be Germany. I know it to be 
England. In this hour I feel compelled, standing before my conscience, to direct yet another 
appeal to reason in England. I believe I can do this as I am not asking for something as the 
vanquished, but rather, as the victor, I am speaking in the name of reason. I see no compelling 
reason which could force the continuation of this war. 
I regret the sacrifices it will demand. I would like to spare my Volk. I know the hearts of 
millions of men and boys aglow at the thought of finally being allowed to wage battle against 
an enemy who has, without reasonable cause, declared war on us a second time. 
But I also know of the women and mothers at home whose hearts, despite their 
willingness to sacrifice to the last, hang onto this last with all their might. 
Mr. Churchill may well belittle my declaration again, crying that it was nothing other 
than a symptom of my fear, or my doubts of the final victory. 
Still I will have an easy conscience in view of things to come. Deputies, Men of the 
German Reichstag! In reflecting on the ten months lying behind us, all of us will surely feel 
overcome by the grace of Providence which allowed us to accomplish so great a task. It has 
blessed our resolves and stood by us on many a difficult path. I myself am touched in 
recognition of the calling it imparted to me to restore freedom and honor to my Volk. The 
disgrace we suffered for twenty-two years and which had its beginnings in the Forest of 
Compiegne was erased forever at the very same site. Today I have named the men who, 
before history, enabled me to accomplish this great task. They have done their best, dedicating 
their talents and their industry to the German Volk. 
I now wish to conclude in mentioning all those nameless men who have no less done 
their duty. Millions of them have risked life and liberty and, as brave German officers and 
soldiers, have been ready at every hour to make the last sacrifice a man can make. Today 
many of them rest in the same graves in which their fathers have rested since the Great War. 
They bear evidence to silent heroism. They stand as a symbol for all those hundreds of 
thousands of musketeers, anti-tank gunners and tank gunners, pioneers and artillerymen, 
soldiers of the Navy and the Luftwaffe, men of the Waffen SS, and all those other fighters 
who stood for the German Wehrmacht in the struggle for the freedom and future of our Volk 
and for the eternal greatness of the National Socialist Greater German Reich. 
Deutschland-Sieg Heil!
